Goodbye

<br>

Nostalgia

I stepped foot in America in Dec'2010. Nearly six years here and I can't believe that my time here is up. I still remember that skinny kid with shaggy hair walking into Owen hall at Purdue. I was such a confused kid back then. I had no goals, no sense of purpose - just there to wing it. The past couple of years really defined me and made me who I am. Back in Lawrence (boarding school), we were lost in our authoritarian bubble. Getting out into the real world was a struggle. People say you learn to be independent at boarding school, I say bullshit. If anything, boarding school was drug that got you dependent on that lifestyle. It was a dystopian fantasy where all aspects of real society were thrown out the window. Leaving lawrence was almost like a form of PTSD where I didn't really know how to function in the real world anymore. If that wasn't bad enough, here I was stuck in a new country. Imagine if you threw a north korean man in New York all by himself - bit of a strech but you get the point. That's what 8 years of Lawrence did to me but it all worked out in the end though (I think). I have no hard feelings towards Lawrence, I mean in retrospect I had some of the best times of my life there and only hold fond memories. It took a few years to re-callibrate into the real world though. 

Anyway, back to America. I was a confused kid. Everything was foreign to me. The people were cold, the food was bland and the weather was shit (blizzard of '10). First impression, not so good. It took a while for me to warm up to America. Slowly but surely things started to change, I moved from one corn field to a better corn field in Illinois. It took a while but America didn't seem too foreign to me after a year. Things that bothered me before, became enjoyable now. For example, I used to loathe the extremely fake "Thank you, have a good one". Eventually, I changed my perspective and saw it in a different light. I saw these pleasantries as one worker bee acknoledging another as we go on about our mundane lives and that helped me embrace these new changes. 

There are so many things about America that I could go on about but I'll try and stick to the most obvious ones. America is a fascinating and somtimes amusing country. She is a country of polar extremes and this presidential election gives you proof of it. Every thing here falls on either end of the spectrum. Starting with the intelligence of the people. I've met some of the dumbest people i've ever come across here. I can't count the number of times people have asked me which part of India is Dubai in. The other day I overheard a lady say "..the chinese food in USA is probably so different from that in Japan". Okay, since this is geography I can give them a pass but how are you surprised that I can speak English and didn't grow up in a slum. On the other hand, I've met Americans who know more about India than I do. 

Second contrast, it has to be said - is fitness. The single most valid stereotype about Americans are fat people. I have to agree that in general especially in rural America, people can get pretty heavy. I've seen plenty of folks that would need an entire row if they flew economy. But I also see freaks of nature in the gym pushing 300 lbs to warm up. The general rule is that urban areas have some really good looking folks because they tend to take care of themselves but rural america seriously needs to hit the gym for the sake of their health. 

Speaking of rural America, I now live and work in Iowa for my last stint in the USA. Now, here comes the blinding contrast between Liberals and Conservatives in this country. During my stay here I've been told that conservative America is racist. They're all old white people that hate minorities. Living here n Iowa has shown that to be completely false. The conservative Iowans have been the friendliest and most welcoming people among all the Americans I've come across (Midwest, CA, FL, NY). I also found them to be the most genuiune because they say what they want to say without trying to be politically correct. Personally, I enjoy that kind of company. In Liberal America, you're focusing on what not to say the whole time that conversations can be suffocating. Anyway, from my personal understanding, conservative Iowans are really nice folks that are very polite and welcoming as long as you live by thier standards and social ethics. Liberals on the other land, give you a free pass on how you want to live your life but are cold and stand-off ish. That's my reflection on political attitudes expressed in day to day life. 





Contradictions

Goodbye/Thanks

I'm writing this as i'm sitting here at O'hare - quite possibly for the last time ever. I'm not sure how to feel right now because my emotions are all over the place. Goodbyes are never easy but it is one that i've become accustomed to. I've said so many of those in my life that I've learned to scrape the emotions out of it and coat it with a nice thick layer of raionality. That's the coping mechanism that evolution installed in me and quite frankly it served me well so far. 

Sitting here for the last time feels realy weird, the fact that I may never eat another fat sandwhich or that I'll never be able to get amazon prime now delivered to my door step at 11 PM is quite depressing. There are so many things that first-world folks take for granted. Running hot water at all times of the day is one of them. Even the most priviledged Indian kids have to turn on a geyser and wait 15 minutes before they cann take a shower.

America has been a fascinating journey. The past five years have been a rollercoaster of a ride to say the least.This country shattered all expectations I had before moving here. Not one assumption I had about this country was true. Some of it for the better, while some not so much. One thing is for sure is that no other country in the world can deliver what America did.