"Errbody wanna be a bodybuilder, but ain't nobody wanna lift no heavy ass weights" - Ronnie Coleman

Alright, so I've been looking forward to writing this post for a while because It's something i'm  genuinely passionate about.Lifting. And I've decided that any post pertaining to lifting is going to start with Ronnie's quote. 

If you know me, you'll know how much I love football (soccer). I've been in love with the sport ever since I first started watching Chelsea and then let the game consume me. I played the sport furiously always giving above my 100% and that resulted in terrible injuries. My love for the game meant that I hardly rested between injuries and that just lead to permanetly injuring my ankles. A couple of doctors asked me to never play again unless I get surgery which i'm not keen on doing because it means being a vegetable for 2-months. How could I live my life now that football is out of the equation. I had to find a replacement -atleast something temporary to keep me occupied. I entered a weight room for the first time and I fell in love all over again.  

 Over the course of the last 2-3 years, I went from being super skinny to relatively big as a result of countless hours spent in the gym. Am I proud of what I've achieved in this time? Absolutely, because I was able to witness my body do extraordinary things - things, skinny me would have balked at its possibility. I was also able to transform myself mentally and physically and pursue a lifestyle that I enjoyed living. Lastly, I was able to build up my ankles/legs after destroying them playing soccer. 