---
layout: post
title: End of a Chapter
cover: flag4.jpg
date:   2016-07-05 12:00:00
categories: posts
---
<br/>

I stepped foot in America in Dec'2010. Nearly six years here and I can't believe that my time here is up. I still remember that skinny kid with shaggy hair walking into Owen hall at Purdue. I was such a confused kid back then. I had no goals, no sense of purpose - just there to wing it. The past couple of years really defined me and made me who I am. Back in Lawrence (boarding school), we were lost in our authoritarian bubble. Getting out into the real world was a struggle. People say you learn to be independent at boarding school, I call bullshit. If anything, boarding school was a drug that got you dependent on that lifestyle. It was a utopian/dystopian dream where all aspects of real society were thrown out the window. Leaving lawrence was almost like a form of PTSD where I didn't really know how to function in the real world anymore. If that wasn't bad enough, here I was stuck in a new country. Picture a North-Korean man in downtown Manhattan - bit of a stretch but you get the point. That's what 8 years of Lawrence did to me but it all worked out in the end though (I think). I have no hard feelings towards Lawrence, I mean in retrospect I had some of the best times of my life there and only hold fond memories. It took a few years to re-calibrate into the real world though. 

Anyway, back to America. I was a confused kid. Everything was foreign to me. The people were cold, the food was bland and the weather was shit (blizzard of '10). First impression, not so good. It took a while for me to warm up to America. Slowly but surely things started to change, I moved from one corn field to a better corn field in Illinois. It took a while but America didn't seem too strange to me after a year. Things that bothered me before, became enjoyable now. For example, I used to loathe the extremely fake "Thank you, have a good one". Eventually, I changed my perspective and saw it in a different light. I saw these pleasantries as one worker bee acknowledging another as we go on about our mundane lives and that helped me embrace these new changes. 

There are so many things about America that I could go on about but I'll try and stick to the most obvious ones. America is a fascinating and sometimes amusing country. It is a country of polar extremes and this presidential election gives you proof of it. Everything here falls on either end of the spectrum. Starting with the intelligence of the people. I've met some of the dumbest people I've ever come across here. I can't count the number of times people have asked me which part of India is Dubai in. The other day I overheard a lady say "..the chinese food in USA is probably so different from that in Japan or wherever". Okay, since this is geography I can give her a pass but how are you surprised that I can speak English and didn't grow up in a slum. On the other hand, I've met Americans who know more about India than I do.

Second contrast, it has to be said - is fitness. The single most valid stereotype about Americans are fat people. I have to agree that in general especially in rural America, people can get pretty heavy. I've seen plenty of folks that would need an entire row if they flew economy. But I also see freaks of nature in the gym pushing 300 lbs to warm up. Urban America has some of the fittest people on earth but rural America seriously needs to hit the gym for the sake of their health. 

Speaking of rural America, I now live and work in Iowa for my last stint in the US. Now, here comes the blinding contrast between Liberals and Conservatives in this country. During my stay here I've been told that conservative America is racist. They're all old white people that hate minorities. Living here in Iowa has shown that to be completely false. The conservative Iowans have been the friendliest and most welcoming people among all the Americans I've come across (Midwest, CA, FL, NY). I also found them to be the most genuine because they say what they want to say without trying to be politically correct. Personally, I enjoy that kind of company. In Liberal America, you're focusing on what not to say that conversations can be suffocating. Anyway, from my personal understanding, conservative Iowans are really nice folk that are very polite and welcoming as long as you live by their standards and social ethics. Liberals on the other land, give you a free pass on how you want to live your life but are cold and stand-off ish. That's a trade off that one needs to make when living here and you should make that choice wisely.

Okay enough stereotypes, this is getting too long, so I'll just cut to the point of the post which is what I'm going to miss about America. I was never a first-world kid and I've still not taken the luxuries of first-worldnness for granted but man is there a lot I'm going to miss.  

I'll miss having hot water 24/7 in my taps. I'll miss having drive-throughs for pretty much everything. I'll miss midnight fat-sandwiches. I'll miss the most incredible and extensive road network in the world that is meticulously laid out. I'll miss the plethora of national parks and its pristine lakes. I'll miss amazon prime's one hour delivery in the middle of the night. I'll miss the most comfortable bus I've ever taken in my life (yes, greyhound). I'll miss people standing in lines. I'll miss people opening the door for me. I'll miss pedestrian crosswalks. I'll miss music festivals. God, I'll miss musical festivals. And last but not the least, I'll miss the giant iron paradises here that have earned the right to be called a gym -not the smith machine carrying dump we have in India. The gym is the single biggest thing I'm going to miss about America because it more or less defined my last few years here. It put me on a path to self-improvement mentally and physically. It taught me discipline inside and outside the gym and most importantly, it taught me the virtue of patience - improving in slow increments but also embracing defeat when it happened. More on the gym in another post, because I can go on forever. 

Now, as I sit here at O'hare in an emotional wreck, I can't help but see flashes of the last six years go by me one by one. Each memory evoking a different feeling. A majority of it is me cringing thinking back to old me but the rest are of my fond experiences and people of the last 6 years. If I've known you well or you're just an acquaintance or even somebody that passed by me on the street, I want to thank you for being a part of my experience in the United States. The people I've met along the way are the factors that shaped me who I am. This next few statements maybe a little controversial and biased but I think I've traveled enough to make this judgement. I genuinely believe that America has made me a much much better person. I don't think there is another country that I could have spent 6 years and learnt so much. In school and outisde, the values and thought process are so different from what I've grown up with that it truly pushed me outside my comfort zone and forced me to grow. 

I find it ironic that my last day in America was independence day. I do think it's quite fitting though because I feel like I have really conquered everything America had to offer and now my time is up. I've come out stronger, wiser and in pile load of debt. Luckily for me, I received a scholarship to do my master's in Sweden so I will be headed there in August. I look forward to what my new adventuure holds in store for me, and I hope you follow me on this blog because I will keep you posted on this new journey of mine. I'll end this post with a quote from my uber driver on the way to the airport. He asked me when he heard I was leaving when I would be back, so I replied "Never, it's the end of a chapter". His reply was "No it's not, it's the beginning of a new one".       
## Zoheb