---
layout: post
title: zoblog's caption
cover: stars.jpg
date:   2016-05-22 12:00:00
categories: posts
---
<br/>

## Jack of all Trades -  Master of None.

You hear this phrase everywhere. At school, college, in sports and practically any book you pick up on trying to learn something. The first time I made contact with this phrase was in my classical indian music class in boarding school. I was learning to play the harmonium back then which is an Indian keyboard instrument in case you are unaware. Anyway, one day I got pretty tired of playing the same thing and decided to bang the Tabla for a day. My teacher at the time, who was notorious for being very anal about trivial matters came running to me hysterically screaming "Stick to your instrument!!". Later, he pulled me to the side and handed me a dose of his wisdom "Zoheb, you don't want to be a jack of all trades and master of none, so stick to your instrument!." If you know me, you'll know that I have an awful memory, but for some reason that moment still sticks out clear as day. This phrase stuck with me throughout my life ever since. It's always lingering - when I try to pick up a hobby or start learning a new skill, I feel pressured to stick through with it. Years of priming led me to believe that, if you're not going to stick through with it, you're not going to master it and if you're not going master it - there's no point in picking it up in the first place. 

A few months ago, I was casually browsing reddit and came across a thread about misattributed quotes or something along those lines. Scrolling down to my surprise, I found that this phrase was originally "Jack of all trades, master of none but oftentimes better than a master of one". Funny how over the years, someone conveniently cut up the phrase to fit their agenda. I assume one day a slave owner was sitting there pondering, I wonder how I can make this slave pick up his cotton more efficiently and decided to lay this phrase on him. Boom. I felt a huge weight lifted off my back upon reading this because I've lived my entire life being a master of none. Actually, that's not entirely true, I've utterly and completely mastered FIFA but other that, the statement holds. I always considered myself good at a lot of things but can never find that one niche that really captivates me. People around me usually seem to have their shit together because they've had that one goal that they've been working towards since they've been 10 years old. I just can't comprehend how anybody can feel that way so early. The mainstream interpretation of the phrase reinforced the belief that I'm an idiot and made me question my sanity many times just because I couldn't seem to enjoy something to do it all day everyday.

I'm really glad I came across that forum on reddit because the real version of the phrase seems more human to me. I don't want to be a machine that needs to be tuned untill it makes the perfect good. I don't think my purpose here is to take a craft and hone it till I the day I die. There's an infinite number of things one can try out in life and in my opinion, it's a crime to take one and make it your life's mission while ignoring the other aspects life has to offer. All I'm trying to say is that it doesn't matter if you haven't figured out what you want yet, that's not what life is about. If that was the case, you'd have a giant tattoo of your profession on your forehead the day you were born or you'll have a last name like "doctorwala".. oh wait. 

So embrace the curious side in you. Be open to new experiences but most importantly do what you want to do because it's what you want to do - not to make something out of it

### Zoheb