---
layout: post
title: The Firehose Project
cover: firehose1.png
date:   2016-05-22 12:00:00
categories: posts
---
<br/>
After gradating with degrees in Economics and Psychology and working in the bay area for a few months, I felt quite lost in terms of the kind of career choice I was going to make. I was deciding whether to stay in line with my econ, psych combo and move into the realm of finance/consulting/behavior analytics or go back to India and help out with the business. When faced with this dilemna, I made the choice that only I could do and said @#$% it, lets do neither.

The bay area really inspired me to look into tech as a career option. I've always enjoyed computer science even in my early days of high school and in college too. I scored well in computer science as well so I thought of looking into this option more closely. The fact that the market for tech is currently raining jobs was also a lucrative incentive to make the switch. Now, I didn't graduate with a CS degree and I had no plans of going back to college to do another 4 years. If I wanted to make a career shift, I had to do it in a short time frame with less $$$ out of my pocket. 

I did my research on how to make a career switch to tech and found that there are over a 100 bootcamps that teach you how to code. They range in the kind of services they provide, that go from year long programs to ones that last only 2-3 months. When picking a bootcamp I had two priorities, I wanted something cheap and short. Now, the most important part about making this switch in my opinion was picking the right bootcamp. When you are going to devote 30+ hours a week you want to make sure that you're giving your money to the right people who are invested in you. I read countless blog posts and reviews about bootcamps and settled on this little gem of a bootcamp. 

Enter Firehose Project.<br/>
[https://www.thefirehoseproject.com/](www.thefirehoseproject.com)

 This bootcamp is geared towards full-stack web development with special emphasis on HTML/CSS/Javascript as the front-end and Ruby on Rails doing all the heavy lifting. The program is scheduled for 3 months of coursework and an additional 2 months for a final project and will cost ~$5000. This is in stark contrast to its competitors who go upwards of 10k. What drew me to pick this bootcamp was the sheer adulation of the program's past graduates. Everyone raved about how great the program was and it's exclusive close-community feel when compared to its competitors. I was actually this close to picking Bloc which is the mainstream bootcamp out there but it was the reviews alone that made me drop Bloc and pick Firehose. Also maybe because it was $8000 more. Initially, I'm not going to lie Firehose felt awry because the website itself was not very great. The design was average at best and it felt quite amateur-ish. When you're looking for a coding bootcamp and you see something like that, that's a red flag but I signed up nonetheless because they offered 2 free weeks. 

Fast forward to the end of the program and I completely understand why the website was lacklustre and their designs outdated. The founders, Ken and Marco didn't care for marketing gimmicks. They focused on making a solid substance based bootcamp that taught students the fundamentals of programming instead of selling you the idea of a quick-fix solution to becomme a programmer. The two founders are really cool guys that interact with the students on a regular basis and even answer your questions personally in a matter of few hours. Ken even answered one of my questions on new years eve - so that just shows you the lengths they go to help out their students. 

Overall, this is a solid bootcamp that teaches you how to learn to program instead of just spoon feeding you lines of code. Don't get me wrong, there's plenty of spoon feeding but what I really liked about the program is they know when to guide you and when to let go. That method really helped a newbie like me get the hang of coding in the most effective way. 

Now, on to coursework. The course is split into 4 projects and then a final group project. You make splurty which is a random quote generator, a yelp clone, a udemy clone and an instragram clone. The final project has a mentor leading the group but for the most part you're on your own with only past material for  reference. For this project you build a chess game from scratch. I found this to be the most helpful part of the course because this is where you get pushed into the deep end of the pool with little help. You struggle a lot but eventually you'll make it out having grasped all the concepts a junior developer needs to know. I also forgot to mention that you will have your own personal mentor to guide you along the way with whom you meet once a week. The mentor is usually a well qualified professional working in the industry and they give you some useful tips outside of the curriculum. In addition to these projects, you also have many other smaller assignments like quizzes, algorithm challenges, interview prep etc which all help make you a complete programmer ready to hit the job market. 

Last but not the least, there's the communication channels on slack where other firehosers hangout and chat about coding related topics or just things in general. Here folks discuss topics that aren't touched upon during coursework like new frameworks and different coding challenges. In addition, you can find other students to pair-program with or just ask questions and have people try and answer them. There are some really great people on there who truly enjoy helping out fellow students. I've been tossed a rope by some of those guys many a time. Special shout out to Michael Farell (@mikeysax) for being a top lad. Keep doing the good work !

Overall, I can't stress how much I've gained enrolling in this program. Firehose opened new windows for me and showed that there's a world out there with endless possibilites. The fact that you're reading this right now on a jekyll powered blog is a testament to that. The most important takeaway from the program is not that I learnt how to code or learnt how javascript works but it is much more nuanced than that. For example, Google is such a powerful tool that I think we all take for granted. Almost every issue I hit can be solved with a simple google search. There were times when I would just give up but changing a word here or there and hitting search one more time helped me find solutions to dead-end problems. This would happen over and over again and so the most important lesson this program taught me is that in code or in life, if you're ever having trouble moving forward all you gotta do is look harder.

xx Zoheb