---
layout: post
title: StrongLifts 5x5
cover: barbell3.jpg
date:   2016-07-19 12:00:00
categories: posts	
---
<br/>
"Errbody wanna be a bodybuilder, but ain't nobody wanna lift no heavy ass weights" - Ronnie Coleman

Alright, so I've been looking forward to writing this post for a while because it’s something I’m genuinely passionate about. Lifting. And I've decided that any post pertaining to lifting must start with the above quote from Ronnie Coleman. Moreover, take everything you read on this post with a grain of salt. I'm no expert and there is no one size fits all, these are just my experiences and advice I'd give to someone new. If you are a girl, know that everything I say applies equally to you. You won't become 'bulky' or a mass monster even after years of strength training (unless you're on steroids). Your body simply does not produce enough testosterone to do that. Just wanted to get that myth out of the way. So let's get started.

If you know me, you'll know how much I love football (soccer). I've been in love with the sport ever since I first started watching Chelsea and then let the game consume me. I played the sport furiously always giving above 100% and that resulted in terrible injuries. My love for the game meant that I hardly rested between injuries and that lead to permanently destroyed ankle ligaments. A couple of doctors ordered me to never play again unless I get surgery which I'm not keen on doing because it means being a vegetable for 2-months. How could I live my life now that football is out of the equation? I had to find a replacement -at least something temporary to keep me occupied. I entered a weight room for the first time and I fell in love all over again.  

 Over the course of the last 3 years, I went from being super skinny to relatively big as a result of countless hours spent in the gym. Am I proud of what I've achieved in this time? Absolutely, because I was able to witness my body do extraordinary things - things, skinny me would have balked at its possibility. I was also able to transform myself mentally and physically and pursue a lifestyle that I personally find rewarding. But most importantly, I was able to strengthen the muscles around my ankles so that my ligaments weren't an issue anymore.

 Looking back however, there were also many cringe-worthy maneuvers I pulled in the gym. When I first started lifting, I did what I like to call the 'fuckit' routine. This routine is where you go in and push and pull everything in sight until your body is not capable of moving anymore. This was my idea of getting stronger. Couple this with the fact that in college I hardly got any sleep so this famed routine was actually a recipe for a disaster. Now, don't get me wrong, I saw amazing results -became bigger and stronger as would any newbie that starts working out but over time it wrecked my body. After a year or so, I was lifting less weight for each session and I remember thinking to myself, what is going on? I'm pushing myself to the limit and getting weaker day by day. So I did what any sane person would do and turned to the internet to find answers. 

 My takeaway from my research was that my philosophy to lifting was greatly flawed. I was going to failure on every set and wasn't giving my body enough rest or recovery to be able to build itself up, instead I was punishing it hoping it would get stronger. This flawed ideology only became clear to me after consistently seeing a negative slope with all my lifts and that's when I realized that I dun goof'd. 

Flaw number two was even worse. It was a combination of ego-lifting and bad form. I half-squatted for months and deadlifted with a rounded back. Result? Knees hurt like a female dog and I had significant lower back pain. When you first start pushing or pulling heavy weight, you get carried away and become eager to see what your body is capable of. Instead of sensibly adding 10 lbs you go "light weight baby!" and load up 25lbs. This was the result of my ego getting in the way of simple rationale. I faced the consequences with little to no progress and pain all over my body. Now, if I ever get the urge to add more weight than I'm capable, I always remember this piece of advice given to me by one of my trainers. He said, "Leave your ego at the door, because somewhere out there, there's a 16 year old girl warming up with your PR (Personal Record)." I laughed but then I found [proof](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PuvAHsvoAzs) and cried.

Despite all these flaws, the famed 'fuckit' routine actually helped me put on size. I was hitting one body part a day and was totally depleted by the end. I was stuffing chicken fried rice down my throat for both lunch and dinner and in no time I looked swole and the compliments came rolling in. The only problem I had was that I was not as strong as I looked. Not even close. I vividly remember the day when this really skinny dude next to me (I'm talking 120 lbs) was benching twice as much as me. That's when it hit me that size means jack shit when it comes to strength. Of course, there is a correlation between size and strength but it is in no way a causation. My fitness goal was not to look like the dudes from Jersey Shore but to be able to pull mad weight. I decided to drop everything I was doing and start from scratch a reliable, proven routine that was designed to actually make me stronger. That's when I found [StrongLifts 5x5](http://stronglifts.com/5x5/). 

This program follows the philosophy of an ancient Greek wrestler, Milo who was supposedly the strongest man in Greece. Milo carried a small calf on his shoulders to work every morning. As time went by, the calf got bigger and his body adjusted to handle the load of the bigger calf. After many years, he was carrying a massive cow on his shoulders and his body was only capable of doing it because of the priming and conditioning from doing it every day. So in essence, the program follows a different principal wherein baby steps is everything. For example, you hit squats, deadlifts and bench press each 3 times a week and you increase weight by 5lbs per exercise on each day. On Monday, if you squat 100lbs, on Wednesday you squat 105lbs. Check out the link for the program and you will have all the information you need including videos showing you how to perform those exercises.  

At first, I was a huge skeptic of StrongLifts because on this program you only lift 3 times a week and only do 3 exercises each day. How was this supposed to make me stronger after the intense bro-split I've been running for 2 years? But reading through the success stories and ravings from the online fitness community I was sure there was more to it than meets the eye. I started running this program and in less than 3 months I improved my bench, squat and deadlifts more than the entire second year of training and even looked better. If you are a newbie looking to hit the gym, I cannot stress enough to do this or something similar over high rep isolation work. Initially, it may not make you as big as a regular bro-split but in the long term, it is much more beneficial because it gives you an overall stable base to work with. I am now stronger, balanced, more flexible and look forward to my sessions because I actually have a set goal to achieve as opposed to going to the gym to get 'pumped' and wake up sore the next day. 

If you are someone that has never been to the gym but intend to take the leap, this is where I shower you with accumulated wisdom from broseidon so pay close attention. It is important to realize that working out serves different purposes and everyone has their own goals be it aesthetics, strength, endurance or mental satisfaction. Regardless of your goals the most important and crucial piece of advice I can give someone is to make the commitment and stick with it. There will be times where you feel insecure or feel like you're not cut out for this but remember that everyone started at the bottom and those feelings are absolutely normal. Make the effort to push yourself into the gym. The first 3-4 months will be a drag but once you start to see those gains, you're hooked for life. 

 I also urge you to not make the same mistake as I did and dive straight into an isolation program from day 1. Try a beginner strength program and then after you max out on those newbie gains switch out to an aesthetic program if that's your goal. I promise you, you will thank me later (especially your legs). Furthermore, whatever you do - make sure you enjoy what you're doing. If you like doing yoga do that. If aerobics is your thing, go for it. If cardio is your calling, run till you drop. If you choose CrossFit - don't. It is a workout cult and the majority of their trainers are not qualified. You will end up injuring yourself with their ridiculous timed routines, but hey that's just my opinion. Either way, whatever you do just make sure that you get yourself into the gym and find your groove. Once you have that going and you become a regular gymrat, you can start to experiment and tread new territory. 

 Finally, always keep in mind that if Milo can walk around with a cow on his head and become the strongest man in Greece, nothing you do in the gym can look worse. With that, go forth and take those baby steps.
